Title: Improvising
Date: 2019-05-08 16:02
Category: Production

Over the last two and a half weeks I came up with a setup for improvising. I
did a few passes of about an hour and it's sounding ok. I've been taking
pointers from things that have been said by people like Juju and Jordash and
people in the Circle of Live thing. Mostly about feeling safe, and confidence.
Also it was interesting that this feeling of "will it or won't it happen", re
good things coming out, seems to be something that all musicians feel even when
they're pros.

The setup has a drumbrute, an erebus hardware synth, a phonec 2 soft synth, and
an axon polyrhythm generator going into tracks in ableton. There are four
separate drumbrute inputs for kick, clap, hats, and other perc. I've got
different effects on these tracks, eg I've used the Soundtoys PhaseMistress a
few times, and there's drum bus compression and EQ. There's also reverb on each
channel, and another send with delay/reverb/etc to make noise builds and echo
effects.

I play into a keylab 88 midicontroller keyboard to play the synths. The
controller knobs are mapped to various parameters (filter/LFO etc) which I
think would be interesting to modulate. These will probably change as I find
out which are more or less useful. To play the axon, I've got a quneo "3D" pad
controller, a novation x-session block o' knobs, and a roli lightpad block. I
spent a while setting up the control for the axon because I really like it and it's
useful for keeping stuff interesting.

It's something I can potentially play live, although there's quite a lot of
equipment. Bands have a lot of equipment too, I suppose. It's also good for
generating lots of ideas quickly and taking the best ones and making tracks out
of them. I've thought this was a cool idea for quite a while so it's good to be
doing that.
