Title: Finding the new sound
Date: 2019-09-17 17:41
Category: production-ideas

It feels a bit embarrassing to say I'm "finding my sound", because it's a
cliche, so I've titled this post using a reference to a Mighty Boosh song. To
make it seem ironic.

It's not that ironic, though. I'm relishing the idea of refining and defining
what I want from my music. I've been exploring some different methods which
I've been wanting to play around with for a while. I've also been following a
Mike Monday course; one entitled "Unique Style Generator". Both have been
enjoyable and useful.

The methods I've been playing around with include the live set idea detailed in
a previous post. Except instead of playing as if I were entertaining people
(i.e., quickly), I've been using the live set template as a starting point for
making patterns and ideas. Then, when I get bored, I save it and move on. In
that way I collect a number of loops. Some will be combined into other loops,
and some will be more fully fleshed out. (I've actually been using past loops
for the following bits of the process.) I bounce and then listen to a number of
these loops together, and play around with the combinations, and choose a few
of them which I think will go together well, and what order they will go in.
Then, I make a minimix in Ableton: a short live set made from these loops in
that order. I record, refine and polish the track, and aim to give it a
coherent arc and mood. Something like below, except with the steps less clearly
defined and blurring into each other as per what feels fun.

![Photo]({attach}img/production_findingsound_flowdiagram.png)

In that way I've come up with an initial process I seem to enjoy, and no doubt
it'll develop and change. But it occurred to me that a sound means a process,
but also what you express through the process, and how you express it. The Mike
Monday course includes a few different ideas and techniques. This includes
keeping a digital mood board in Evernote, and exercises designed to teach you
to understand more about the relationships and patterns you see between your
influences.

It also points out that this is a journey, not a destination. (Like happiness.)
Being a musician always feels uncertain, and this should be embraced. That
really helped me feel like what I'm doing at the moment is just fine, and
understand that I will never feel like I have arrived somewhere. A good life
lesson in general, I would say.
