Title: DJing
Category: djing

My friend [Robin Gower](http://www.infonomics.ltd.uk/about/) taught me to DJ at
university. I quickly surpassed him in skill, and built a much better record
collection. Most of my records were the so-called "breaks" that were popular
around the early 2000s, and were played on Friday nights at fabric. It's a
style which hasn't aged very well. Admittedly, I tended to gravitate towards
more experimental, technical records, which have held up better than some.
Here's quite a fast mix which shows the kind of stuff I was playing at that
time.

[fast electroboy mix - electroboy's breakadelic adventure]

I decided to call myself "Lektroboy", and played a number of times around
London. A couple of times I played at the legendary [Bang
Face](https://bangface.com/) night, a crazy, costumed mash-up of electronica
and breakcore which we used to go to a lot. I also played with a party
collective called OCB a few times - once in a disused pub in Hackney Wick, once
in a pub in south London - although I never managed to play an outdoor party
during the summer, sadly.

Towards the late 2000s, breaks died a timely demise, and I was getting lots of
free house and techno records from my [writing](relative link to writing), so I
started playing more of that. I played once or twice at friends' parties and
once at a festival in Wales called [Gottwood](https://www.gottwood.co.uk/), but
I had figured out that you can only really build a name as a DJ through
producing music, unless your name is Ben UFO, so [my focus shifted to
that](relative link to production). My style was particularly musical: melodies
and rhythms playing off against each other, or atmospheric tracks that built
symphonically, or ones with wild, improvised elements that could make the seams
of reality split in a forest glade at 3 a.m. (Still no 3 a.m. forest glade
bookings.)

[pastel mix]
[deep forest mix thingy]

Nowadays, my style is more stripped-back, what with living in Berlin and all.
It's based around electro, rhythm-centric UK bass, and experimental techno,
with a darker mood than in the past.

[new mix]

It's still developing, driven by buying records that feel fresh to me, and
mixing them in an order that makes sense in the moment; nothing much more than
that.


Some of my sets are [here](https://www.mixcloud.com/danielpetry).
